1.	For each of parts (a) through (d), indicate whether we would generally expect the performance of a flexible statistical learning method to be better 	or worse than an inflexible method. Justify your answer.
	(a) The sample size n is extremely large, and the number of predictors p is small.
	(b) The number of predictors p is extremely large, and the number of observations n is small.
	(c) The relationship between the predictors and response is highly non-linear.
	(d) The variance of the error terms, i.e. σ2 = Var(), is extremely high.

ANSWER
(a)	Better. A more flexible model can fit this, without the risk of overfitting. This is because of the extreme number of observations being considered.
(b)	Worse. A less flexible model would a better fit because the small amount of data means we are susceptible to overfitting
(c)	Better. non-linear gives a better fit for data
(d)	Worse. A high variance will result in a high bias too (even though there are both non-negatives)

2.	Explain whether each scenario is a classification or regression problem, and indicate whether we are most interested in inference or 	prediction. Finally, provide n and p.
	(a) We collect a set of data on the top 500 firms in the US. For each firm we record profit, number of employees, industry and the CEO salary. We 		are interested in understanding which factors affect CEO salary.
	(b) We are considering launching a new product and wish to know whether it will be a success or a failure. We collect data on 20 similar products 		that were previously launched. For each product we have recorded whether it was a success or failure, price charged for the product, marketing 	budget, competition price, and ten other variables.
	(c) We are interest in predicting the ed % change in the USD/Euro exchange rate in relation to the weekly changes in the world stock markets. Hence 		we collect weekly data for all of 2012. For each week we record the % change in the USD/Euro, the % change in the US market, the % change in 	the British market, and the % change in the German market

ANSWER
(a)	Problem type:	Regression
	Interest:	Inference
	n = 500
	p = 3
	Regression because it is a quantitative outcome, and Inference because the objective is not predict but interpretate the relalation between 	the factors and the salary.
(b)	Problem type:	Classification
	Interest:	Prediction
	n = 20
	p = 13
	It is a qualitative issue (binary one) and the main interest is get an accuracy response.
(c)	Problem type:	Regression
	Interest:	Prediction
	n = 52
	n = 3

3.	We now revisit the bias-variance decomposition.
	(a) Provide a sketch of typical (squared) bias, variance, training error, test error, and Bayes (or irreducible) error curves, on a single plot, as 		we go from less flexible statistical learning methods towards more flexible approaches. The x-axis should represent the amount of flexibility in the 	method, and the y-axis should represent the values for each curve. There should be five curves. Make sure to label each one.
	(b) Explain why each of the five curves has the shape displayed in part (a).

ANSWER
	The diagram exists outside notepad.
	The Bayes-error is constant because it is particular from the dataset and does not alter by modelling features.
	The training error just decreases as the level of flexibility increases and the function overfits the data, at the end the error assumes a minimum 	constant value.
	The test error begins decreasing until a mark level where flexibility starts to overfit the training data (following its noise) and the error starts		to increase.
	The Bias just decreases as the levels of flexibility creates a more complex function, which represents better the real-problem.
	The Variance starts to increase slowly, after with higher levels of flexibility, the function become less robust and the variance value increases 	rapidly.

4.	You will now think of some real-life applications for statistical learning.
	(a) Describe three real-life applications in which classification might be useful. Describe the response, as well as the predictors. Is the goal of 	each application inference or prediction? Explain your answer.
	(b) Describe three real-life applications in which regression might be useful. Describe the response, as well as the predictors. Is the goal of 	each application inference or prediction? Explain your answer.
	(c) Describe three real-life applications in which cluster analysis might be useful.

ANSWER
(a)	Fraud Detection, Spam Classification, Cancer or Disease Detection
	i.	Response is to classify a deal as fraudulent or not; predictors would be the size and timing of the transaction, history of similar 		transactions, dealers in the transaction etc.; the goal here is prediction as we are trying to check if a transaction is fraudulent or not
	ii.	Response is to group incoming emails as spam or not; predictors would be classified texts in the body, email address of the sender, the 		timing of the mail, number of recepients; the goal is prediction regardless of what outcome had been achieved before then, the goal is to 		predict	for the future if a particular mail is a spam or not
	iii.	Response is to classify samples of cells according to descriptions to be either cancerous or otherwise; shape, size and texture of growth, 		age of patient, gender, family history; the goal is a prediction too.

(b)	Price of a house, Salary of an average employee, Number of viewers of a YouTube vlog
	i.	Response: House Price, Predictors: Total area of property, number of bedrooms, number of bathrooms, basement (yes/no), garden (yes/no), year 		built, etc..Goal: Prediction (we want to value the property as accurately as possible)
	ii.	Response: Annual Income, Predictors: Age, experience in role, combined salary of reportees, weekly hours worked, academic qualifications 		etc. Goal: Inference (want to understand the nature of relationship between the predictors and the response)
	iii.	Response: Views (first month).	Predictors: Total views on channel, avg views over last 3 videos, views (after 1 day), number of 			google search results (after 1 day), number of subscribers, video length, channel theme (political, gaming, etc.), average videos per month, 		etc. Goal: Prediction

(c)	Clustering of a customer-base based on spending habits, age, location etc. to design seperate marketing strategies for each
	Clustering attributes of an animal of a particular species to explore possible sub-species
	Recommendation systems, where products, movies, etc. are recommended based on what was popular with others in the same cluster

5.	What are the advantages and disadvantages of a very flexible (versus a less flexible) approach for regression or classification? Under what 	circumstances might a more flexible approach be preferred to a less flexible approach? When might a less flexible approach be preferred?

ANSWER
Flexible vs Less-flexible approaches
Flexible method advantages:

Decreased bias (less assumptions about the functional form of \(\hat{f}\))
Capture non-linear relationships
Capture complex variable interactions
Often require less assumptions
Often outperform less flexible methods in prediction error
Flexible method disadvantages:

Increased variance (easier to overfit)
Require tuning
Increased training times (cross-validation or equivalent is basically neccessary to mitigate high variance & tune hyperparameters)
Require more variables and observations to work optimally
Less interpretable

Under what circumstances might a more flexible approach be preferred to a less flexible approach?
A:

When we are more interested in interpretability/inference
When we suspect that the assumptions of the less flexible method are satisfied (e.g. relationships appear linear, some variables are certainly useless -> LASSO linear regression may perform better than anything else)
When clarification behind why an observation has a particular prediction may be necessary

When might a less flexible approach be preferred?
A:

When the primary concern is predictive power
When there is sufficient computing power for variance-controlling measures (e.g. cross-validation)
When there is a large number of variables
When non-linear or interaction relationships are present
When there is a large amount of data


6.	Describe the differences between a parametric and a non-parametric statistical learning approach. What are the advantages of a parametric approach 	to regression or classification (as opposed to a nonparametric approach)? What are its disadvantages?

ANSWER
Parametric Test has the advantage that, because there is an assumption that the model fit is linear, there is a lot less work towards getting the values of f. Here, we only just need a methos (say Least Square Linear Regression) to get estimates or actuals for the weight (W or Beta). However, the prolem here is that we run the risk of wrongly assuming as it is scarce for real-life problems to have a Linear Regression fit and thereby, the response is much farther from the actual thing expected.They are very interpretable. Example is the Linear Regression. Computation time is reduced

Non-Parametric Test has the advantage of not making assumptions; they are non-linear and take a number of things into consideration while seeking a model to fit the data. There a lot more work but it is worth is as the response is much much closer to the expected output. Much less interpretable. Example, Logisitcs Regression. There is much more computational time in execution.

7.	(a)	3, 2, 3.16, 2.24, 1.41, 1.73
	(b)	Green
	(c)	Two Red's, One Green. Answer is Red
	d) If the Bayes decision boundary in this problem is highly non-linear, then would we expect the best value for K to be large or small? Why?

	Small, because the level of flexibility is inversely proportional to the number of K for KNN approach, and to fit non-linear characteristcs is 		needed a high flexible approach. We would expect a small K to perform better for a nonlinear decision boundary. A small K would be more 		‘flexible’ and the KNN boundary would be pulled in different directions easier, whereas a large K would have a ‘smoothing’ effect and produce a more 	linear boundary (hence, a worse classifier), because it takes more points into account.

8.	Totally skipped for someone else to try

9.	This exercise involves the Auto data set studied in the lab. Make sure that the missing values have been removed from the data.
	(a) Which of the predictors are quantitative, and which are qualitative?
	(b) What is the range of each quantitative predictor? You can answer this using the range() function. range()
	(c) What is the mean and standard deviation of each quantitative predictor?
	(d) Now remove the 10th through 85th observations. What is the range, mean, and standard deviation of each predictor in the subset of the data that 	remains?
	(e) Using the full data set, investigate the predictors graphically,	using scatterplots or other tools of your choice. Create some 	plots 	highlighting the relationships among the predictors. Comment on your findings.
	(f) Suppose that we wish to predict gas mileage (mpg) on the basis of the other variables. Do your plots suggest that any of the other variables 	might be useful in predicting mpg? Justify your	answer.

ANSWER

(a)
Quantitative:
mpg - Miles per gallon
cylinders - Number of cylinders between 4 and 8
displacement - Engine displacement (cu. inches)
horsepower - Engine horsepower
weight - Vehicle weight (lbs.)
acceleration - Time to accelerate from 0 to 60 mph (sec.)
year - Model year (modulo 100)

Qualitative:
origin - Origin of car (1. American, 2. European, 3. Japanese)
name - Vehicle name

(b)
auto_range <- data.frame(sapply(Auto[,1:7], range))
rownames(auto_range) <- c("min: ", "max: ")
auto_range

(c)
sapply(Auto[,1:7], mean)
sapply(Auto[,1:7], sd)

(d)
done

(e)
Table built

(f)
done but not completely


10.	
ANSWERS

The Boston housing dataset is 506 rows and 14 columns.

Each row represents a Boston suburb.

The columns represent:

crim - Per capita crime rate by town
zn - Proportion of residential land zoned for lots over 25,000 sq.ft.
indus - Proportion of non-retail business acres per town
chas - Charles River dummy variable (= 1 if tract bounds river; 0 otherwise)
nox - Nitrogen oxides concentration (parts per 10 million)
rm - Average number of rooms per dwelling
age - Proportion of owner-occupied units built prior to 1940
dis - Weighted mean of distances to five Boston employment centres
rad - Index of accessibility to radial highways
tax - Full-value property-tax rate per $10,000
ptratio - Pupil-teacher ratio by town
black - 1000(Bk - 0.63)^2 where Bk is the proportion of blacks by town
lstat - Lower status of the population (percent)
medv - Median value of owner-occupied homes in $1000s

(b) - (g)	Left for someone else to try

